Let's talk a bit about state management,
so again, for those who are newer to view,
the official state
management library is Vuex.
Think of it like the Redux pattern,
where you're
able to define the you have your state and
then we have getters mutation actions and
basically a standard for
how to update global state.
And this was basically the convention for
most of you to apps in the past.
So the first question most people will
ask when it comes to Vuex is what data
should actually go into Vuex?
Because now that you have this shared
global state, it's easy to just put
everything in there because then you
can kind of access it from anywhere.
But in reality, we want to try to
encapsulate things as closely scaled as
possible and keep the global store as
basically as simple as humanly possible
since we don't want everything
just polluting the global space.
And so examples of this include
things that you want to keep between
router views.
And so as you move from path to path,
there may be certain data you
want to track regarding user
preferences and those sort of things.
Those are great examples,
something that should be global and for
example to the first point when you
have components that don't share data,
that don't have that direct
parent child relation.
This can also be a great example of
when the US could be a good example but
certainly as we saw the composition API,
now,
it might be better to actually refactor
that and just make that a shared module.
But, we will go into the pros and
cons later,
about why that's not necessarily
like the way to do it.
But these are the basic principles,
that go into, whether or
not something should be in Vuex.
Now, the other thing to note about
keeping data between your router views,
is in the example here we have is that you
have a list of records fetch from an API,
is that while you might track what
the users search for, for example, right?
Like user search equals this,
it's still really important to still keep
the route params updated inside of your
app, architecturally speaking as like
the global source of truth,
rather than the global store.
Because this gives you two
benefits as far as one,
ensuring a consistency as far as
user experience when they search for
something they actually
have the parameters update.
And that parameter is what serves as
the source of truth for what happens but
if you need additional information that
goes beyond simply route params view,
it can certainly be a good place to start.
And so any sort of global state as we
mentioned regarding like login status,
you know, the user information or
any sort of global notifications,
absolutely Vuex is a great case for it.
And what boils down to it
right is that if you think
that it will make managing the state
simpler global state is a great
way to sorta have that escape
hatch to share things.
Now, what to avoid putting in Vuex, right?
Because that that was some unlike
the generic principles and so
user interface variables are things
that we wanna try to avoid.
So when you're tracking whether or
not the drop down is open,
unless this drop down impacts
the entire application somehow,
it's best to keep it scoped directly to
that component that will then have its own
internal state regarding whether
the drop down is open or not.
And so again, things like his input focus
is most visible, these are all things that
really should be contained to
the component for the most part.
There are as always, there are exception
form data validation results all of these
are also good examples of keeping
it encapsulated to the form.
If you have a credit card payment form,
keep all the stuff in there don't pollute
the global namespace especially if it
doesn't need to be shared, especially for
things like forums, which honestly
are usually localized to that one piece.
And so if you're like,
well I have multiple pages on my form,
I need to know like the result
between all of them.
Then now it'd be a great example of
creating a parent form that then like
controls how all like
the individual pages go.
Instead of like creating multiple forms
that talk to the global store and
then shoot everything down, so
another architecture pattern to consider.
And so a lot of times see when
we're pulling stuff from APIs,
it might be tempting to store single
records from the API in there because
the user favorited it or something.
But often times when you have this sort of
things you generally again still trying
to keep it within the component,
only when there's some sort of global
impact regarding a user preference to
those things then we then
go into the global state.
And so this is a question that actually
I've seen this in a number of code bases
where there's this question of like,
do I always need a getter in order
to return a fragment of state?
And the short answer is no, really,
when you're thinking of Vuex getters,
you should really think of
them as computed properties.
And so when you actually need to
access the state of your Vuex,
basically store you can do that directly.
There's like people I've seen people
write getters to get states but
if you're not doing any sort
of compensation computation,
you sort of it's a redundancy.
And actually again, if you can access
it directly just like you wouldn't
create a computed property
to access something in data,
you create a computed property
to run calculations on data.
Similarly, this is how you need to think
of getters as well, if you're not running
a calculation on something, you don't need
to getter, just access the state directly.
And yes, okay, so we just covered
this regarding derived Vuex state so
as far as derived Vuex state to
give you a little bit more context.
If you're storing, like the response
from an API and you have a list,
and for example, like within this list,
we only want to filter down
the items that the user favorited,
because every object for example,
has an attribute of favorited true.
Then this would be a good example
of where you would go like getters
where it's like API, favorite API lists or
favorite items list.
And that would be computed based off
the state of your entire like record list.
And that would be a great example of how
you should use getters to make maintenance
easier across your application.
As far as the tip goes, when it comes
to using Vuex I strongly recommend
avoiding the calling of mutations
directly in your components.
And so this is a little bit of a debate as
well and a controversy between or night,
I wouldn't call it controversy.
It's just there's certainly a debate,
because a lot of times one of
the big criticisms of Vuex and
the standard Redux pattern for
that matter is when you have mutations
which actually update the store directly.
And then you have these actions,
the writing an action in order to commit
a mutation, especially when it's so
one to one like this can feel very
boilerplate and so a lot of times
we don't wanna do that, right?
We just wanna increment count, we don't
wanna have to write an action that's
called add change amount to count in
order to commit an increment count.
It seems like a lot of boilerplate but the
reason why I would recommend avoiding it,
as much as humanly possible is because
going especially as Vuex begins to update,
there is already talks in Vuex 5,
for instance.
And so
actually let me back up a little bit,
currently we are on Vuex 5,
4, view 2 and so for view 3,
they are porting over the existing
Vuex functionality into the Vuex 4.
And then, Vuex 5 is going to be
basically and evolution on the standard,
once Vuex as it stands,
is stable in the view 3 ecosystem.
And so, in view 5 and
some of the ideas being explored,
really is that We might actually be
able to detect when you actually want to
do mutations without having
to write everything.
And so what this means is you
can just call your actions and
then basically programmatic,
like the algorithm will know which things
you're trying to mutate in the state.
You don't and so basically like, you can
imagine that mutations are just gonna but
they're going to disappear and so that's
the idea that we're working towards.
And so if it turns to like patterns
going forward in the long term,
even though it's a little bit more
boilerplate, the fact that mutations has
like there's again the ideas are being
discussed of like going away.
This means that you will have one less
refactoring to do as you start to upgrade
your application like
the migration path is much simpler.
And more importantly when
it comes to using actions,
it does allow people to easily
enhance like that functionality.
So while it might seem like a one
to one like mutation at one point,
allow keeping it in an action allows
other developers when they're working on
the same feature to then go ahead and
enhance it.
Because, as we all know, when we're
working on enterprise level applications,
you never know which piece of
the application you're gonna be working on
before you move on to something else and
someone else has to take over.
So in another way, this is just like,
in some ways, like a courtesy to
future developers that hey, I know that
right now this is only doing a mutation.
But if in the future like you need to
do anything piece of cake, I'm already
calling the action in these places,
you can just enhance it as you see fit.
In this regard, this is similar to the dot
view files where I was saying keep all
your HTML in the single file components.
Because when you actually need the CSS
when you need j s, it's as simple as
adding it to the view file rather
than having to create new files and
reconfigure everything.
That said, in case you don't know, Vuex
also has a bunch of built in map helpers.
And so the pro tip here is to use it but
being consistent with what I just
told you, I'd like to particularly avoid
mutations if you need to call them and
so the reason for this is you'll see that.
What map helpers allow you to do,
basically at a high level is it allows you
to take stuff from your Vuex store and
then sort of rename it so
that it's easier to call.
So rather than having to call like
this.state.user.name, it would just
be this.username, that's like
an example called map state helps you.
And then similarly, the map getters
instead of now having to access
this.store.state.activeusers list
is just this.active users list.
Now, the reason why, so you can see
there's the methods down there that allows
you to then call the action
as you would a normal method.
But the problem is the reason why I'm
saying to avoid using mutations inside of
the map mutations, like let's say you have
a really strong use case for mutations,
I believe there is an argument for
that out there.
The reason why I'm saying not to actually
use map mutations is because you want to
be as explicit as humanly possible that
you are mutating the global store.
And so being verbose with the
this.stored.state.commit like that whole
thing is like it's basically what I'm
trying to say is it's valuable to make
that clear to developers.
That this thing that you're either you're
changing or updating this thing is
changing the global state, which means
the side effects are basically like,
you have no like there
are loads that can happen.
And so in that regard, that's why I
think not mutations has in that regard,
I would recommend avoiding it and
then again,
if you really need to mutate
please just call it directly.
Okay and
then as far as the global state goes,
in case you didn't know Vuex also
allows you to do namespace modules.
So rather than keeping everything
enclosed in a single like global state,
you can be like, okay,
there is a state and
there's a module in here that's
like tracking the shopping cart.
And that way shopping cart has its own
state getters, actions and mutations and
then we have another one for to do list,
which has its own global state.
And so generally speaking, when it
comes to enterprise level applications,
even when you're just starting out,
don't even wait for
the data on this particular one,
just enable namespace modules.
And so we've covered a lot of different
techniques here and so the reason I'm not
going to that is because If you
haven't checked it out already Divya.
She has a great Vuex workshop here on
front end masters that I highly recommend
checking out.
So in there she'll go into much more depth
regarding some of those best practices and
how a lot of those things work.
So definitely refer to a workshop for
more information Okay,
so this is something that comes
up with every Vuex discussion now
that we have you three is composition API.
And a lot of people are basically
asking like do we even need Vuex?
[COUGH] After all if you can compose your
functions in a way that allow you to share
reactive state, I mean there's nothing
stopping you from creating basically your
own globalstate.js and
then just inject like basically
like importing it everywhere.
And this is this is true, which is one of
the reasons why as far as like sharing
function like sharing reactive state,
there's nothing stopping you from
using composition API and
replacing Vuex as a whole.
But whenever someone is sort of we're
thinking of tooling, we have to remember
that it's more than just like the the
sheer mechanics of what is happening.
So I think the best analogy here is with
view router now that you understand about
like dynamically switching out
components with composite the component,
the component component Man,
that's an awful.
That doesn't mean that immediately
you would go out like view router
is still useful because while the core
mechanics of switching components out is
still ultimate just a component,
component component.
Vuex provides a lot of things that
help us debug things and that's well,
I think we have to remember when it comes
to the importance of the tools that we
select and how it impacts our scale
at impacts our apps at scale.
And so while composition API is great for
sharing things, as we probably saw it
doesn't have the built in experience that
Vuex provides in terms of debug ability.
So as for those who have used like
the view dev tools, this means that like,
time traveling, watching state, seeing
what payload it is, all of that, which
especially if we think about global state,
is actually a really critical thing.
Because you can imagine that if something
does break in your global state,
having that level of tooling to be able
to see and like inspect all the different
events that lead up to something
breaking is to me like that is worth it.
That's basically like that is I mean
that is our value as developers,
right is that when things we build new
things and then when things break,
we can fix them and so on.
In that regard, I would say that yes,
composition API does help, like alleviate
a lot of these sort of needs for like
what originally Vuex was designed for.
But going forward especially with Vuex
five and things are rewritten like Vuex is
going to be a lot of us will be
using composition API, as its core,
just as view router did for
the component component.
And so all the DX and time that the team
spends on that like that is just that's
like free developer experience
enhancements for your team.
And so I would say even though even when
you start using the composition API,
still be careful to like, I think
the viewers conventions are still going to
be very valuable to enterprise
grade applications as time goes on.